---
layout: post
title: "The No and Fuckoff Philosophy"
subtitle: "The rude way to have a lighter life"
image: "https://images.pexels.com/photos/355863/pexels-photo-355863.jpeg"
author: ronaldo
categories: [Philosophy, "Way of life"]
---

Life is not easy. Yeah, it sounds dreadful, but it is not. It is part
of the beauty of life the fact that it is not easy. But, even not
being a easy thing, it does not need to be a burden. 

Although there is no formula, no secret that make life lighter, I have
found a principle that helped me having a lighter life. It may no work
for you, but it works pretty nice for me. It is the *No and Fuckoff
Philosophy*. Let's look at it in parts. 

## The No

Your time is pretty limited. Your day have only 24 hours. And you have
a lot to do in your day. Saying *no* is pretty important in order to
avoid you get an overload of things to do. Also, you don't need to
accept everything from everyone. If you are looking for acceptance,
the bad news: nobody cares about you. Well, that is a very heavy
phrase. Actually, only the ones that love you do care about you. But
this is a very small group.

Although it may sound simple, saying *no* is quite hard. It took me
years of therapy and a lot of thinking to start saying *no*. As social
beings, we need to be part of a group. Also, we need to be accepted in
that group. That's why, in my opinion, it is quite hard to say *no*. 

After learning this important thing, I was able to get back to my
guitar lessons, got time to spend with my family and, still, kept a
good productivity in my professional activities. You don't need to
carry on the weight of the World. Do what you can, with the tools that
you have, the best way it is possible to be done.

## The Fuckoff

That's where things gets interesting: learn to say *fuckoff*. Yeah, it
is rude, but it is incredibly powerful. It is about choosing the
fights you can fight. There is a interesting fact of the Universe: you
have control over a few things. Most of time, you don't have
control. For all things that you can't change, i.e., you don't have
control, just say *fuckoff, it is not my problem*.

You must have in mind that lots of problems you just can't solve
because they are beyond your reach. That is the kind of thing that you
will only spend energy and time and will not be able to change the
outcome.

In this realm you will find people in need that do not want to be
helped. And you just can't control it. You will find people that
doesn't want to change their way of doing things and you just can't do
anything to change it.

The *fuckoff* is a way to just don't care about problems you can't
solve by yourself because they are beyond your control. It is a way to
choose your fights, the fights you can fight. Not all fights are for
you. You are limited, you have a line that you just can't cross called
*your limitation*.

The *fuckoff* is also a way to not create expectations: give without
wanting something back, share without wanting someone else to share
with you. It is about *dettachment*, not being attached to
things. Someone hit your car and you are okay, without a scratch?
*Fuckoff*! It is a headache, but you are able to get a new car, not a
new you.

## Live lighter

I hope these small principles can help you somehow. It helped me
having a lighter, happier life. It worked for me. However, these are
not the truth. It may not work for you. The best is to check on it,
adapt it to yourself, or even not use it at all. The important is to
have a lighter, happier life. If you get in there, that's what
matters.

## Bonus: Talk through your actions

This is related to this "philosophy": talk your principles through
your actions, not through your words. Words are meaningless. They can
be hollow, empty. Actions, on the other side, have real consequences,
for the good or for the bad.

The important is not to be afraid of making mistakes. A mistake
happens because you need to learn something you didn't know before. It
is a lesson to be taken. If you don't want to make mistakes, just
don't do anything. But, don't complain if your life is stuck.

Make good actions and good things come back to you. Make bad action,
only bad things come back.
